I'm going to show you three simple tips
that will turn Claude into a genius
level thinking partner. I've been using
Claude every single day for over a year
and these three tips are the difference
between getting generic AI slop versus
getting responses that genuinely make
you smarter. And I've taught thousands
of people how to use AI. So [music] if
you're thinking I've already tried
prompting tricks, this isn't about
prompting. This is about changing how
Claude thinks with you. I'll show you
all three tips [music] live on screen so
you can see exactly how they work in
real time. Most people are still using
Claude like Google. Type a question, get
an answer, move on. They're leaving 90%
of its brain power on the table. That's
why I created this genius mode protocol.
Three simple tips you can easily do and
Claude will stop giving you surface
level answers. So here are the three
tips to activate Claude's genius mode.
First, let's open up Claude. Now here
I've opened up Claude desktop and
selected co-work, but these tips work
just fine if you're using Claude.ai on
the website or if you are using chat
mode or if you're using Claude code. It
doesn't matter which mode you're in, all
three tips apply to all of these modes.
Now let's suppose we want to use AI to
help us research and validate a business
idea. Let's say our idea is we want to
build an app that helps users find small
business leads by scraping public
sources like Google business reviews and
websites of businesses in a particular
city or town. Now most people would
write a prompt like this, just telling
AI what is the task you want to do. Tip
number one to unlock Claude genius mode
is to add this to the end of your
prompt. Ask me clarifying questions
until you're 95% confident you can
complete the task successfully. And what
this will do is Claude will try to
interpret the task and then think about
all of the things that are vague, that
are fuzzy. All of these additional
details that would be super helpful to
clarify so that Claude can complete this
task successfully, research and
validating our business idea. So let's
try running this and now Claude has
started asking us questions. Who's the
primary customer buying or using this
app? We didn't specify that in the
original prompt and it probably makes a
difference in terms of researching our
business idea and the eventual products
we want to build. So let's say our
primary customer will be solo founders
and freelancers who are trying to reach
out to these local small businesses.
Intended business model, let's say not
sure yet. What differentiates our app
versus other tools? I'm going to go for
hyper local focus because I know that
apps like Apollo and ZoomInfo are really
great for business leads, B2B leads and
getting that contact information, but
they're not so great at local small
business leads. Oh, and what format do
you want the validation research
delivered in? I'm going to say just in
chat. Now just by providing that little
bit of context, Claude is going to
produce a research and validation plan
that is more focused than if we went
with this vague original prompt. And
here's our full validation report for a
hyper local small business lead finder.
Market size, competitor landscape, it's
producing this really nice detailed
business plan again based on the context
that we provided. We want to target solo
founders and freelancers, we're not 100%
sure the business model, but we know
that
of our app is going to be hyper local
focus as opposed to B2B lead research.
Now a common mistake people make is they
take AI's first answer at face value.
They just don't even question it, but
that's a big mistake. You don't want to
turn your brain off just because AI has
produced an impressive looking response.
So tip number two specifically designed
to flip the tables and have Claude
challenge your assumptions, challenge
your thinking so that you can get
smarter about the decision you're trying
to make. As a follow up prompt, type
this. Be my sparring partner, identify
my blind spots, risks and assumptions.
Then hit enter. And what this is going
to do is instead of AI glazing you,
telling you, "Hey, this is an amazing
plan." It's going to actively poke holes
in your plan, identify your weakest
assumptions, where are you missing data,
what are the riskiest parts of your
plan, what are you not thinking about
that you should be thinking about. AI is
going to spar with you, beat up your
idea and that is ultimately what helps
you arrive at a better decision, a
smarter decision faster. Boom,
assumption number one is that finding
the business is the hard part, but a
freelancer can actually just Google who
the dentists in the Phoenix area are.
The real bottleneck is actually what do
I say to them to get a response and
convert them into a paying customer.
Assumption number two we're making is
that Apollo and other systems don't have
localized data, but why can't these
other platforms do the same thing? If
I'm going to scrape public sources, why
can't these other platforms, which have
raised tons of funding and have massive
teams, be able to do the same thing?
Look at all of these assumptions that AI
is now pointing out that honestly we
didn't think that much about, right?
Because if you go back to our original
prompt, it was pretty basic. Research
and validate this business idea. Just by
getting the hang of asking AI to
challenge your ideas, challenge your
thinking, point out your blind spots and
your weakest assumptions, it's going to
absolutely transform how you collaborate
and work with AI. And most importantly,
instead of taking AI's first answer as
the correct answer, this will teach you
to really dig in and rip apart what AI
is saying. So tip number one was all
about encouraging AI to ask you
clarifying questions so that you can
provide more context and get more
tailored personalized responses. And
then we transition to tip number two,
showing you how to collaborate with AI
as your sparring partner to help you
challenge your thinking and come up with
even better solutions. Now tip number
three, which will save you a lot of
time, is to create skills out of your
conversations. For example, let's say
you're in the ideation phase trying to
think about what business you should
build and you want to run a similar
research and validation prompt again and
again. Instead of having to type it out
every single time, we're going to tell
Claude create a reusable skill based on
this chat. And now Claude's going to
analyze our conversation and capture
what we did, the research based
validation workflow as well as the
adversarial sparring framework. It's
going to capture that into a skill so
that you can just type it in the future
and it will already know to do these
things. Okay, now Claude is finished and
on the right hand side it popped out
everything that it created. Now a plugin
is just a set of skills. So when it says
install the plugin, that just means it's
installing these two skills. Number one
is validate business idea. You can click
skill.md here to actually read the skill
file. This is the actual validate
business idea skill file with clarifying
questions as well as details for the
research phase, etc. This is the second
skill it created, sparring partner. This
skill will be triggered when you say my
blind spots or challenge my thinking.
You don't have to invoke a skill
directly by typing slash, you can just
type any prompt and Claude AI will
intelligently decide which skills it
should use. So it created both of these
skills based on our conversation and now
we can reuse them every single time
without having to like type that
specific prompt in. So read this over,
you can give it feedback to update this,
right? And then when you're happy with
it, go ahead and click save plugin. So
this will save to your account. Notice
this pop up top right corner, plugin
changes applied. Go ahead and click
manage and it will take you to where you
can manage the plugin instead of skills.
Like I said, a plugin is just a
collection of skills and a skill is like
a repeatable task. And now let's try it
out. So let's go back and start a new
conversation. Type slash, this is a
shortcut to be able to see what skills
you have and you can see the ones we
just made here, sparring partner
validate business idea. Now let's type
in a different business idea. Let's say
AI training for companies that want to
learn Claude co-work. And just like
before when we appended ask me
clarifying questions to the end of the
prompt, now this skill knows it should
always start by asking us clarifying
questions. So it's again asking, "Who is
our primary target customer?" Let's say
SMB, uh paper co-hort. I'm just going
through it quickly. And now here's the
research it did for our new idea, Claude
co-work AI training for small
businesses. And it's definitely a great
initial start, but now let's poke holes
in it. Let's have AI challenge our ideas
and challenge our thinking. So go ahead
and type slash let's use our sparring
partner skill. Boom, it summarized that
this is a real business with real
demand, but the biggest competitor is
literally Anthropic giving away all of
this education for free. And it suggests
that the winning move is owning the
applied live done with you lane. And it
encourages me to test this positioning
this week. Now I want to show you that
you can also trigger this just by
typing. So if I say challenge my
thinking, you can see Claude is thinking
here and it's actually using the skills
we created, idea validator and sparring
partner. So you don't have to always
trigger it by typing slash. You can type
any prompt and again Claude will think
about what skills it has access to and
use the most relevant skills for the
task at hand. And now here is its more
detailed analysis of the weak spots,
blind spots in our thinking. So to
recap, tip number one, ask me clarifying
questions, just add that to the end of
your prompt, especially where you're not
sure yet. Tip number two is to use AI as
your sparring partner, beat up your
ideas, challenge your thinking, beat up
your assumptions and find your weak
spots. And tip number three is to take
your conversations and build reusable,
repeatable skills out of them so that
you don't have to explain all of your
preferences and guidelines every single
time you talk to Claude AI. If you
combine these three tips, you will be
far ahead of 99% of people using Claude
AI today.